[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is
Vinney Todd Tolman.
And before my near-death
experience as a youthful,
young 20-something year old,
I was out exploring life.
I'd traveled the world,
done many different jobs.
And I used to do bodybuilding
or amateur bodybuilding.
And back in January 18, 2003,
it started with a new supplement
that me and a really good friend
of mine had purchased online.
We decided, hey, we're going
to take this on a Saturday.
We're going to go up
and see a car show, do
a workout at the gym, and
just have a fun Saturday.
So we get there to
hit my buddy's place.
We took this new
supplement and immediately
felt something was wrong.
It felt almost as
if cold ice started
pumping through our veins.
It felt like our whole body
was starting to get cold.
And I explained to my buddy
that, hey, we should probably
go get something
to eat, otherwise
we're going to be really sick.
So we went down the street a few
blocks to this fast food joint.
We go in there.
And as soon as I go in, I went
straight into the bathroom.
I felt like I was going
to throw up or vomit.
My buddy, he went in, he
collapsed on the first booth
he could reach, and he
started to throw up.
He started to
vomit on the table.
The manager of the
restaurant called 911.
They got him hauled
away in an ambulance
almost immediately, right away.
And he turned out
to be totally fine.
They released him from the
hospital the very next day.
But meanwhile, me
inside that bathroom, I
myself start to vomit while
I'm passed out on my back.
And what happens is when you
vomit on your back like that,
you aspirate, you suffocate.
And that's what happened to me.
I died right there and
then on the bathroom floor.
I suffocated.
And about 45 minutes later,
the manager of the restaurant
finally opened up that
bathroom after a customer kept
asking him to open it for him.
He opened it and sees this
dead body on the ground.
He called 911.
And from my point of
view, I went directly
from consciousness
to feeling dizziness
as if the room is
spinning on me.
And then out of
nowhere, I'm just
watching this scene
unfold in front of me.
And I'm watching a dead
body on the ground.
I'm watching a manager call 911.
I'm watching even
the customer asking
to have the manager
open the door.
And it's very
weird and odd to me
because I can hear every
thought in anyone's head
that is near me.
And I'm watching
everything from above,
which was also very odd to me.
But it didn't dawn on me that
this dead body I was seeing
was me because the body
didn't look like me.
The neck had actually already
swollen wider than the jaw.
There was very, very pallid
purple and yellow tones
on the skin.
It didn't look-- it
almost didn't look human.
And I didn't think for a
second that that was me
because me was up here
watching what was going on.
I watched them bag this body
when the ambulance comes.
They pronounce it dead.
They put it in a body bag.
They put it on a
gurney and they put it
in the back of the ambulance.
Meanwhile, the other
medics, there's
three medics that show up.
There's a rookie
who's brand new.
He's sitting in the
back with the body.
The other two are out
getting paperwork done.
And I could feel his
dismay because he felt
like I wanted to be a medic.
I wanted to be an EMT
to make a difference.
And he felt that he wasn't
making that difference.
He felt that these veteran
medics didn't try for very long
to resuscitate the body.
He felt they should have
tried for 20 minutes, not just
5 minutes.
And they're going
down the street.
As they pull away
from the scene,
I see this glow start to form.
And it really looked like
a little miniature sun
starting to glow in the
heart space on the rookie
medic who's sitting in
the back of the ambulance.
I see it start to glow and
it got brighter and brighter.
And then I heard very
loudly, this one's not dead.
I didn't know where that came
from, but I definitely heard it.
And I could tell that the
rookie medic heard it too.
Now, he froze.
He kind of froze as
soon as that was said,
but he didn't do
anything about it.
I could hear him
shrugging it off
as that must have just
been your imagination.
But they went another block down
the road and the light started
to glow even brighter.
And I heard for a second
time, this one's not dead.
And on that second
time, he responded.
He reacted.
He unzipped the body bag.
He undid a couple of
straps around the body
so that he could reach
in and feel around
the neck area for a pulse.
He didn't feel a pulse,
but it didn't stop him.
He kept going.
He was going to
attempt resuscitation.
So he forced oxygen
into the lungs.
He hooked up the body
to a defibrillator.
Well, the alarm is going
off and the other two medics
start just yelling
at him, saying,
you're going to get fired.
You've got to stop this.
Stop what you're doing.
You're desecrating a dead body.
This is illegal.
But he didn't care.
He went ahead and let
the first charge happen
and nothing happened
after the first charge.
He went ahead and let it
recharge for a second time
and they were still
chewing him out.
But when the second
charge happened,
there was one single heartbeat.
It allowed the other two
medics to wait and watch.
They knew he was going
to go for a third round.
And right after, within
seconds of that third charge,
there was a steady
but faint heartbeat.
So the team began
resuscitation, procedures
of injecting things, and
doing all sorts of things
for the body.
But the body was having a really
hard time with coming back.
It was going into
seizures and they
were strapping the body down.
I was watching the
strapping going on.
I didn't feel anything until
they got to the left arm.
But when they strapped
the left arm--
I'm left handed-- I felt
them strapping my left arm.
And this was the first
inkling, the first idea
that what I'd been
watching this whole time
was my very own death.
>> I was working as a nurse
and I really loved my work.
I knew that was my calling when
I was a little girl, taking care
of other people,
especially people
who were very sick or dying.
And I worked in critical
care until I got hurt.
I got beat up by a patient
and that ended my career.
So I had to have spinal
surgery and have two disks
fused and hardware put in
to hold my spine together.
And I was at home
recovering from that.
I was hanging out with my
daughter, making smoothies,
and I started to feel odd.
My heart started
racing out of nowhere
and I'm not an anxious person.
And my mouth started itching.
I started having
trouble swallowing.
And I thought, wow,
I'm having some kind
of serious allergic
reaction and I could
tell it was moving quickly.
I was starting to itch
and break out in hives.
And I had EpiPens on hand
for a shellfish allergy
and I'd never, ever
had to use them.
So I gave myself the injection.
My son drove me to the hospital.
I walked up to the
counter and the nurse that
was standing there just
was not the nurse you would
want to have if you were having
a life-threatening emergency.
So I was looking up because
I couldn't breathe very well
and anaphylaxis is
all I could say.
And she said, well, did
you take your EpiPen?
And I said, yes.
She said, well, if you
took your EpiPen, why did
you come to the emergency room?
And I thought, oh, man,
I'm going to die today.
She said, we have a room, but
we don't have a bed in it.
And I can't put you in
a room without a bed.
And I said, I don't need a bed.
I need help.
So she put me in the
wheelchair and she wheeled me
back down that hallway
and it's a dead end.
So I'm sitting back in this
hallway knowing no one can see
me and that I'm-- there's no
way I could get up and walk
because I'm having so
much trouble breathing.
And I was trying to get
someone's attention.
That wasn't working.
I had developed
stridor at that point,
which is a noise your throat
makes as it's swelling shut.
So the stridor got
louder and louder.
And I saw this--
I think it was a
physician's assistant
stick her head around the corner
and she said, oh, my gosh.
And she came running down the
hall, grabbed the wheelchair,
ran down the hall with it, and
we get over to the trauma room.
My blood pressure was dropping.
So they started giving me
IV epinephrine, Benadryl.
My husband, my
fiancé at the time,
gets there and
walks into the room.
And I'm sitting in
the bed straight up,
looking straight up, and you
can just hear this whistling.
And he looked at the doctor and
said, if you don't do something,
she's going to stop breathing.
And he said, no, no, no,
we've got plenty of time
before that happens.
And by my husband's telling,
it's less than five minutes
and I just collapse.
But I immediately popped out of
my body and was over the top,
in the corner watching.
And I heard the code call.
I thought, uh-oh,
somebody's in trouble.
And then everybody came
running into the room
and I thought, oh, it's
that lady in the bed.
I didn't know who she was.
So they all came in and
started to work on me.
They code me.
I hear the tongue blade
snap and I go out.
And the next time I wake
up, I'm in my sister's car.
She's driving down the road.
She's coming from
Wisconsin to Kentucky
to be with me and the kids.
And it's pouring rain.
It's dark out.
And I could tell
something wasn't right.
I couldn't feel the seat
against my legs or my back.
I didn't feel like I
had any density at all.
And I didn't say
anything because I
didn't want to scare her.
And I wondered
where she was going.
Is something wrong
with the kids?
Did something happen
to her husband?
Why is she out in this horrible
weather, in the dark driving?
And she pulls over in this
gas station under the canopy
and she pulls out her phone.
And she types in,
hang on, kiddo.
I'm coming.
Then I go unconscious again,
and I wake up in this dark void.
>> I was born in Salem, Oregon,
then ended up moving down
to Santa Barbara when I
was about 26, 27 years old.
I had met someone up in Oregon
and we married down here.
But unfortunately, that
person didn't really
show me who he was
before he brought me down
to Santa Barbara, far
away from my family.
And then I started seeing
his real behaviors,
which were very abusive.
And I was alarmed
and scared and didn't
want to tell anybody that I
had moved to Santa Barbara
and that this person was hurting
me, and hitting me, and really
controlling everything I did.
And so by the time that
1987 rolled around,
I had a little baby daughter
that was about five months old
and a son that was
about eight years old.
But my now ex-husband
had hurt my back.
I had gone into doctors
and had an evaluation.
And the doctors decided
to do surgery on my back.
So it was December of 1987.
I was in the hospital
in Santa Barbara
the night before the surgery
to have a myelogram done.
The myelogram is where
they inject iodine dye
in my spinal cord.
Then they were supposed
to tip the table
so that my dye that they'd
injected behind my neck
would roll through my
spinal cord down my spine.
And they could then see if when
I blew the disk out on my back,
if it had chipped
the spinal cord.
So they had me on the X-ray
table and they injected the dye.
It was just normal procedure.
This isn't a big deal.
But unfortunately,
the X-ray tech
that was pushing the
button on the X-ray table
began talking to the other X-ray
tech about their weekend plans,
and he pushed the wrong
button on the X-ray table.
So that instead of moving the
table so that my head was moved
upwards, it was instead
tipping the opposite way
so that my head
was being lowered
and my feet were being raised.
And that caused the
dye that they had just
injected into the back of my
neck to flow into my brain.
And so within 30s, I started
feeling really weird.
Nobody was really paying
any attention to me.
So I was kind of laying
on the table going,
I wonder if I should
say something.
I feel really weird.
I think I'm going to faint.
What's going on?
And so by the time that I
wanted to finally interrupt
the two guys that
were the X-ray techs,
I actually couldn't speak.
And that panicked me.
I couldn't reach my hand out
to touch either one of them.
I couldn't get my body
to respond to what
was happening in my brain.
So I started hyperventilating.
I was breathing
loudly and very fast.
The X-ray techs realized
that they stopped talking
and looked at me,
and my eyes were
rolling to the back of my head.
I couldn't keep my eyes forward.
The X-ray tech
looked at my face,
and then he leaned
back to see where
his finger was on the machine.
And that point, he
made a face like--
[GASPS]
And then I was not in
my body any longer.
I was gone out of it and
I was up on the ceiling.
All of the panic and
the scaredness was gone.
I felt completely calm.
And I looked down and
I said, if I'm up here,
and my body is down there, and
that man is calling code blue,
then I think I just died.
>> This is when I went to
essentially the darkest place
I've ever gone in my life.
I had such an ego voice going,
saying, you're such an idiot.
How could you not
know that what you've
been watching this whole
time was your own death?
How could you not know that?
And as I started to feel
that and think that,
I then started to see
in very quick flashes
all the negative
influences I had
on other people
in my whole life.
The things that I
did to hurt people
on accident or on purpose, I
saw it not just through my eyes
but through their eyes,
how it impacted them.
And I started to feel this
voice coming out of me saying,
you're not worth saving.
Look at all this bad that
you've done in your life.
But then all of a sudden,
in the same speed,
I started to see all
the good that I did.
And there was a lot more good
than I had ever done, way more.
And I saw how much change
I was able to impact
people's lives in good ways.
And this love started to
pour over me from behind me.
But it's so hard to
describe in words
because it's a love
that we don't have here.
It's an unconditional,
pure love that
doesn't exist in this
space, at least that we can
really, really feel like there.
And this love poured over me.
And this love, it had such
a profound effect on me.
I had a pretty rough upbringing.
I had some darkness
inside of me.
And this love flushed it out,
sealed it up, made it whole.
And all of this
is happening, I'm
realizing that all of this love
and this light and this energy
is coming from behind me.
And I can see a man
standing behind me
with very pink skin,
very long white beard.
He has long white hair.
His eyes could pierce you.
They could look through you
and they could essentially
know not who you thought you
were, but who you really were.
And my first thought
was, are you God?
And this gentleman just laughed.
He said, no, I'm not God.
Then my follow up question
was must be Jesus then.
Even though you don't look
like Jesus, you must be Jesus.
And he laughed at that as well
and said, no, son, I'm not
Jesus, but I'm here for you.
I'm here to be your guide.
I'm here to help you go
wherever you want to go.
And he showed me, he motioned,
I could go back to my life
or I could go forward with him.
And he could show me
what's next for me, what's
next in line for my life.
And of course, I didn't
want to go back to the body.
There was no question because
the body to me meant mistakes.
It meant failures.
It meant pain.
It meant struggle.
And so far, everything that
I've felt from this gentleman
was absolute peace,
unconditional love,
and energy and power
that was coming from him.
And I wanted that.
I wanted more of that.
Whatever that was,
that's what I wanted.
So I told him, I
want to go with you.
Wherever you're going,
that's where I want to go.
And he explained to me that we
were going to start a journey.
This journey was going to be
from a lower understanding
and a lower density to a much
higher frequency and a much
higher understanding.
That we weren't just going to
travel from space to space,
but we're going to travel
from dimension to dimension,
from low dimension
to high dimension.
And as we're doing that, I
had to raise my frequency.
I had to raise my
dimensional vibration
to be able to match his
to keep going with him.
I had to fully embrace
these major principles
to get where we
were going to go.
I would have thought that the
first principle was going to be
love, but it wasn't.
The first principle
was authenticity.
That I had to realize
that all of us
are not authentic in this world.
That the most authentic
people in our world,
in this earthly life, are the
very young and the very old
is because they have
nothing to lose and nothing
to gain by being inauthentic.
And he explained to me
that through this life
we put different facades
on the outside of us.
We put different masks
on for different people,
and that I needed
to get to a point
where I could be the same person
no matter who I was around.
And that was actually
quite hard for me.
I didn't realize that I
had put on so many masks.
And he helped me one at a
time, peel those all away
and start building cleanly
on a new foundation.
And that's what he
did with authenticity.
Then he brought me to
understand the purpose
of life, why we come here.
I was taught something
very different in my church
and in my upbringing.
I was taught more that
we're here to be proven
and to be tested.
But it was very clear
that our life here is not
a courtroom, but a classroom.
That we're here to learn
to grow, to exercise
the power of creation.
And that as we existed
in heaven before here,
anything God wanted,
we wanted instantly.
And that for us to really
grow is just like Earth.
We had to leave home
and it was scary.
We had to go through a
veil of forgetfulness.
Because that love is so
strong and so powerful
that even the
remembrance of that love
would prevent us from
having true free agency.
We would still be
making decisions
out of obligation of that
love because, again, that love
is so powerful.
And one of the most
important things I learned
was to master my thoughts.
Because truly, our
thoughts themselves create.
They end up becoming who we are.
They become our character
and where we go in our life.
And it's so important for us
to come from an energy of love
with our thinking, especially
when we think about ourselves.
It amplifies whatever we
desire that we want to create.
And that brought me
all the way to where
I was seeing this vast planet.
And it was surrounded by this
almost like a cloud mist.
But what was odd to
me, as I looked around,
and I could not see a sun.
And I was led to know
through my guide.
His name is Drake.
Drake led me to know that this
space was lit from within.
So the light in this
space of heaven,
it comes from within everything.
That's why there
there's so many colors
we don't have here because
the actual existence of light
is different.
Because everything
glows there, everything.
And when I say glow,
I don't mean, like,
glow in the dark glow, I
mean glow like our sun glows.
And to even bring a single blade
of grass here to our Earth,
it would explode it because
there's so much energy
in a single blade
of grass there.
And we're at such a low density
here that we couldn't vibrate
at that such high frequency.
We would be incinerated
just to bring that here.
That's why there is this
tunnel or this journey
that we have to
go through for us
to get to heaven is we have to
really ramp up our frequency
to be able to get there.
And as I did, I touched down.
I got into heaven.
I got to feel the grass.
Again, the grass was
the most beautiful thing
I'd ever seen in my
entire existence.
The grass had a distinct, loving
music frequency coming from it.
Just to even be
near it, you would
feel connected to
everything in heaven.
>> I was in this
really dark place,
like the darkest place
you've ever seen.
And I thought, whoa,
what has happened?
Where am I?
I couldn't see
anything around me.
And so I started speculating.
I thought maybe I
never really existed.
Maybe I've always been here,
and I just made that stuff up
about the kids and the life
so that I would have something
to think about to keep
me from going crazy here.
And maybe I've thought
about it for so long I
think it's real now.
Maybe I did something terrible
and I've been cast out.
And I'm in this
place as a punishment
and I'm just never
going to get to leave.
And I just couldn't figure out
where I was or why I was there.
And I think I need to
try harder to move.
Maybe there's some trick to it.
And so I leaned forward
kind of like this.
And as I leaned
forward, I started
moving the direction that I'd
leaned forward and I thought,
oh, my gosh, I can move.
This is incredible.
And so I looked off to my left
and I could see very faint light
in that direction.
So I get over to
where the light is,
and I can tell it's coming from
the other side of this divide.
And the divide looked
like thick glass blocks.
They used to make these leaded
glass blocks for showers.
So you could see
someone was in there,
but you couldn't
see their features.
And that's what it looked like.
So I took my head and I kept
looking closer and closer
until my nose touched the glass.
And when my nose
touched the glass,
I could see the room
on the other side.
And there I was, lying in a bed.
My wrists were
restrained to the bed.
I was completely unconscious.
I looked at the monitor
settings on the monitors
that they had going and
could tell that I was
stable but obviously critical.
So I knew I was in
an induced coma.
And in front of the ventilator,
my daughter is standing.
She's got a flannel shirt on
and I knew the time of year.
And I thought, why is she
wearing a flannel shirt
in August.
That looks so hot.
And my daughter has
always been really stoic,
not prone to drama, very
rational, pragmatic.
And you just never
really know what's
going on inside her emotionally
because she's just not
like that.
But somehow, I felt
like I had gone into her
and I could feel
what she was feeling
for the first time in my life.
She was terrified and
it just broke my heart
that she was scared.
And so I popped through.
And it was like when I
was in the emergency room,
I was above myself watching.
And I thought--
I kind of thought when I popped
through that I would go back
in my body, and I would
wake up, and I didn't.
And I wondered, maybe I need
to get lower, and get over
the top of me, and I'll get
sucked back in like a sponge.
So I tried that.
That didn't work.
I get really frustrated.
I get sucked back, but just on
the other side of the bubble.
So I'm in the dark void.
I was crying and yelling at God.
And I said, what is going on?
What is wrong with you?
How did I get here?
How do I fix this?
And it just occurred to
me like an epiphany--
God didn't put me in that place.
I made that place.
And as soon as I realized
it, there was a crack
and I could hear this
loud, resonant cracking,
like when the ice starts to
thaw in the lakes in Michigan.
You'll hear a crack
start and then
you'll hear it go all
the way out and echo.
And I heard that crack.
And as it started
to crack, light
started pouring
through the cracks.
And this being, this
spirit comes from where
one of the openings is.
She's huge in not just stature,
but in a grand sort of way
her spirit was huge.
And as she gets close to me,
she draws me into her arms.
She doesn't touch
me or anything,
but I'm pulled into her arms.
And all these little
shards of the darkness
are coming toward us.
And her energy is
swirling around us.
And as the shards would
hit that swirling energy,
they would explode.
And they'd be cast
off and gone forever.
And that little bit of
darkness would be gone.
So she's holding
me and I'm crying.
And she says, calm
yourself, dear one.
And I start trying to
figure out who she is.
Her eyes are very familiar, just
this blue, green, beautiful,
beautiful eyes.
And I look up and on her
head is this orange hair
and it looks like flames.
And I knew immediately it was
my grandmother, my mom's mom.
I was just astonished.
She had died when I was
nine and there she was.
And I looked up at her
and I said, oh, my gosh, I
thought you died.
And she said, oh, no and we're
just speaking telepathically
to each other.
She said, oh, no, no, dear
one, there's no death.
You're either alive on the Earth
side or you're super alive here.
And she said, with you,
you're kind of both.
There's a cord that is attaching
you still to your body.
And if you decide
you're going to stay,
that cord will be broken.
And if you decide
you're going to go,
then you'll go
back to your body.
And the choice is yours.
I said, I don't understand.
How am I not dead?
She said, there's no death.
You know this.
You learned this.
When you were little
in primary school,
you were taught that energy
isn't created or destroyed,
it just changes form.
That's God's law
borrowed by man.
And it was just
such a shock to me.
How could I have ever doubted
that there was an afterlife?
I mean, I believed in
God and everything,
but as a fail-safe
in case I died.
I didn't really know if
there was an afterlife.
I hoped there would be.
But what she said scientifically
and my nurse brain
made perfect sense.
So I'm there with
her in her arms
and just basking
in the glow of it.
And I realized that she's gone.
But I start hearing
this thundering.
It was shaking everything.
And I could see that all the
things that had ever existed
were shaking, and all the
things that were yet to exist
were shaking.
And I thought, oh, no, it's God.
And that was my exact reaction.
And I thought, oh, my
gosh, think of something
good you've done, because
I knew my grandmother could
read my mind.
And if she could read
my mind, so could he.
And so he gets
closer and closer.
And as he gets right
there in my presence,
there's this brilliant glow.
And it was so strange because
it didn't feel uncomfortable.
As bright as the light was,
you would think it would.
It was like looking at the sun.
And so when he gets in
close to my presence,
he says in this
thunderous voice, I am.
And my immediate comedic
brain thought, yeah, you are.
I was just blown away by--
I wish I had better
words to put to it.
But to be in that spot with the
known creator of the universe
and he knew me.
So he starts to show me my life.
And so he starts
with something good.
And it was the smallest thing
that I didn't even remember
until he showed it to me.
So I'm in this little grocery
store in this little town
that we lived in.
And there's a lady
in front of me
and she doesn't have enough
money to pay for her groceries.
And she's just short
$0.70 some cents under $1.
She starts trying to figure out
what she's going to put back
and she's choosing
something that is obviously
for her and not for her kids.
And I thought, man, I
remember how humiliating
this feels because I was a
single mom of three kids.
Their dad abandoned us when
my oldest child was five.
And I just remember that feeling
of counting up change, going
to the grocery store,
trying to make sure
that I didn't go over
because I didn't want
to be humiliated in the checkout
and have to put something back.
And there she was,
red and embarrassed.
And I said, hang on, hang on,
please don't put anything back.
Let me help.
I've been there.
And so I took the change out
of my purse and gave it to her.
And she left.
And I thought, gosh, of all
the good things I've done.
I mean, I've worked as a nurse.
I've saved people's lives.
That's the thing you've picked?
And he said, let me show you.
And so he pans that scene
way forward into the future
and I see her working
in this food pantry.
She's working
behind the counter.
There's shelves and all the
food is ordered on the shelves.
And this woman walks in
and she said, I need help.
And you could tell she was
humiliated to ask for it.
And the lady that I had
helped said to her, it's OK,
don't be embarrassed.
I've been where you are.
And I thought,
oh, my gosh, I had
no idea how profound
the ripple effect is
of even small acts of kindness.
In fact, maybe those
are the most important.
And we went to this next scene.
And in that scene,
there was a woman
there that I had worked
with that I always
hated working with because
I felt like she was
inattentive with her patients.
So I was always
frustrated with her.
And God showed me,
he said, you've
harbored resentment
toward her in your heart.
And your thoughts have energy,
your words have more energy,
actions even more so.
But it all starts
with a thought.
And he said instead
of engaging with her,
and encouraging her,
and trying to help
her grow into a
better nurse, you just
held a grudge toward her.
And that makes it harder for
her to change who she is.
And he showed me her life
and he showed me the things
that her father had done to
her when she was a little girl.
And just the abuse and
how her coping skills
had hurt her through her life.
And I thought, oh, my
gosh, she is so much
better than who she was.
She's come out of that.
She is doing something selfless.
She's not doing it to her
highest potential yet,
but she's trying.
And here I slowed that
down just by thinking
these negative
thoughts toward her.
And so he shows me all of that.
And I get this sense that
I have to make a choice
to go further with this.
I didn't know if I
wanted to do that.
And then I got
suddenly ire in me.
I was angry and it felt like God
was asking me to do something
to reveal this part of me.
And I felt like he
hadn't been true to me.
And I said, you know what?
You say you love us.
You say you want our good.
But where were you when my
kids' dad abandoned them?
Where were you when
Jacob would walk out
to the mailbox day
after day after day
to look for something
that his dad promised him
that was never going to come?
Where were you?
I can understand my suffering.
I made a bad marriage choice.
But these were
innocent children.
And he said, oh, my
goodness, dear one, you've
completely misunderstood me.
Let me show you something.
So this movie thing opens back
up and I can see my oldest son.
He's sitting, looking
down on a soccer field.
And I'm sitting next to
him and my grandson, who
was two at the time.
But in this image, he's five.
He's running up and down
the field and he's so tan.
The sun's on him, and
it's shining off his hair,
and he's so alive.
And he says, mom,
I'm going to be
the dad to him that I deserved.
And it still chokes me up.
And I thought, oh,
my goodness, you're
breaking the cycle
of abandonment,
of fatherless children
with my generation.
If that was the purpose
for all of this,
was to finally break
that chain, OK, we're
willing to take one
for the team there
for all the future
generations that will come.
And this light comes
off him in a stream
and it starts swirling
around like this healing
cloak inside me.
And it goes through and
orders and corrects so many
of those visceral pains
I had had through life.
And there was so much.
That marriage fell apart on me.
And it was a huge shock
to me that it did.
And on that day, I
started stacking bricks.
And every time I would get
hurt, I would stack a brick.
And then something
else would happen
and I would stack a brick.
And I had done that over so long
that I had built my own jail.
That was the place,
the void that I was
experiencing on the other side.
It was this prison of my own
design, and I was my own jailer.
And I was too fearful to get
hurt again, to let myself out.
But I was hurting so
badly in that jail.
I may have been what I thought
was safe, but I wasn't.
I was dying inside.
So we're in this place and
I'm realizing what I've built.
And this light is in me
and it's healing so many
of those deep, visceral wounds.
And it goes up and it
wraps around my heart.
And I just felt so loved.
And I knew everything.
I knew I wasn't going
to be able to keep it,
but everything came to light.
Everything that had been
shadowed was now revealed.
>> I felt this wonderful
presence that was right next
to me.
And it felt like I had known
it forever beyond my life,
prior to my life.
It felt like what I
would think God was.
And I felt this connection to
that presence that lasted longer
than my whole entire life.
He'd always been with me.
And there were lots of
times in those instances
as I was growing up, that I
felt his presence as well.
There was times when
I had my life saved.
And I realized that
that was him doing that.
And so up on the
ceiling, it felt
the same, the love
and the presence
and the acceptance
and the warmth.
So I didn't question who it was.
I didn't even look
to see if there was
a light or anything next to me.
I knew who it was and I was
watching everything down below.
And I began talking
not with my mouth,
obviously because I
wasn't in my body.
But with my thoughts, I
ended up saying to him,
I really would like to
go back into my life.
Because if I leave my
children in this way,
in this situation that I'm
married to this person who's
abusive, they won't grow up
to be the good human beings
that they're capable of being.
I need to go back into my body.
And so I was saying that
very gently, not demanding.
It wasn't scary.
It was absolutely
beautiful in the presence
of feeling so loved, and
so cherished, and accepted
by this beautiful being.
But I was looking straight
down at my body and everything
down below was panic mode.
The doctors panicked
the second that they
realized that I had just died.
The X-ray techs
started doing CPR.
The woman who was in the
room got on the telephone,
was calling for a defib
unit screaming stat.
And all this melee was going
on down below, which actually
seemed pretty obnoxious.
They stopped blowing in my mouth
and they put the oxygen mask
over my face.
And they were still doing
the chest compressions.
And then another person
came in and he had a box.
And he started peeling
these little white things
and he was putting
them on my chest.
He turned on the heart
monitor, which was
what he was connecting me to.
And then this little white
light came and went right
across the screen, and it was
just staying in a flat line.
And that's when I realized,
oh, that's a heart monitor
and that's my flat line.
So I actually saw that
from up on the ceiling.
I watched that and
listened to it going beep.
So I knew that I had
no heart activity.
And the neurosurgeon said to
the orthopedic surgeon, too
much time has passed.
She's going to be brain dead.
We need to do something.
And so the orthopedic
surgeon said, stand clear.
The people that were around
the head of the table
stepped backwards.
And he took two steps
forwards and he took his fist
from behind his back and he just
pounded the center of my chest.
Well, I watched
that from up above.
I watched my body react to that.
But right when that
happened, the being
who I'd been talking to
finally spoke to me and said,
but if you go back, you'll
still be in your marriage.
What will you do?
>> It was such a
beautiful experience.
And as I'm literally
glowing in this space,
I'm feeling the connectedness of
the grass, and all the plants,
and the water, and the
healing power of this water.
When my guide, Drake, he
pulls me aside and he says,
Vinney, this is going
to be very hard,
but it's going to be worth it.
And out of nowhere, I start
hearing my brother's voice.
My brother from Earth,
I hear his voice
as loud as he is
speaking in my own ear.
And I hear him giving
a special prayer.
Now, meanwhile,
I've been in a coma.
I've been brain
dead for three days.
And my brother is
standing over my body
and giving me a love that I
didn't know he had for me,
as he said this prayer over me.
And he finished
with the sentence,
I bless you to be made whole.
Here I was in heaven.
I finally felt whole.
But this blessing
to make me whole,
it actually tore
me away from there.
And right before
I was taken away,
I got this amazing
hug from Drake.
I got to feel and
understand the cosmos.
I got to feel and understand
what all of this means,
why we're here, why there's
time, why there's struggle.
I learned it all.
And I was just poured love,
love that I never deserved,
love that I still strive
to be worthy of today.
And it was just a
pristine experience
to feel that power, such
a power that I didn't know
existed in all the cosmos.
And then I was forced back.
The next thing I
remember, I woke up.
I woke up out of a three-day
coma, being brain dead.
I pulled every tube off of
me, every sensor off of me.
I felt so confined.
And the reason I
felt so confined
is, is who we really are is
much larger than this form.
So I woke up at
1:11 in the morning.
I was checked out at 7:30 AM.
Even though every single
department tried to resist
and did not want me to go, I
still signed all the waivers.
I got out of there
and I went jogging.
I actually went jogging that day
and had no problems whatsoever.
I had no residing effects
of my death other than I'm
a different person now.
>> I realized we were
going to go away.
We were going to
go on this journey.
So we start going through
my DNA and I can see us
going through these chromosomes.
And we're going
and going and going
and there's this part where we
come to what's called junk DNA.
And God points to it and
he says, do you see me?
That's me.
I'm in you.
Like your father is your father.
You can deny your
father is your father.
But we can look at this code
and we can determine that he is.
And you can deny it and
you can run away from it,
but the fact is
he is your father.
I am your father.
And I'm in here.
And I thought, all my life
I was chasing what I thought
was this external thing.
And that's not to
say that we are God.
I'm very clear
that I was not God.
But his fingerprints are on us
as he's knitting us together
in our mother's womb and he
can't separate himself back out.
So he is deeply embedded there.
And that is why we're always
searching for something.
We're searching for
this missing part of us.
It's because we
don't realize that.
So we're racing through this
DNA, but we hit this wall.
We just stop.
And I knew in that
moment, I had to make
a decision about whether
I was going to stay or go.
And I immediately
thought, I'm staying.
And it didn't even feel selfish.
I knew that my family would
be OK, that we would all
end up together eventually.
And life had been hard.
I was tired.
This was the first time I'd
ever felt completely loved
and accepted and understood.
But even as I thought the
words, I knew I couldn't do it.
I knew that I had not lived the
life I was supposed to live,
that I had hid from the world,
and that I had neglected
this incredible gift
that had been given to me
and not made of it
what I should have.
So I knew I had to go back.
And as soon as I realized
it, I started pulling away.
The light started
getting further away.
And he gave me a message.
And he said, I want you to share
this message with the world.
And it was just the most
beautiful love letter.
And as he was saying it, I
was thinking, how on Earth
am I going to remember this?
And I started to cry.
And I said, wait,
wait, wait, don't go.
Let me remember it.
If I can't remember
it, I'll lose all hope.
And so I woke up.
I was in the ICU.
There was a nurse
sitting next to the bed.
My wrists were untied.
I was off of the ventilator.
And I looked at her and
I said, I was with God.
And she patted my hand.
She said, oh, that's nice, dear.
I said, no, I mean, just
now, I was with God.
And she said, oh, OK, well,
let me go get your family.
And I'm in a
faith-based hospital
and they all thought
it was crazy.
And so my family comes in,
and my sister comes in.
And I said, I saw
what you wrote.
Hang on, kiddo, I'm coming.
And she was just blown away.
She didn't know
what to do with it.
She didn't say anything.
It's caused this real
weirdness in our relationship.
And so the nurses
finally ran my family off
because I was trying to explain
how I had been with God and all
these things that had happened.
And everybody was
just looking at me
like it was some
hallucination or something.
So I didn't share
it with anybody.
I didn't really do any
talks or anything initially.
And in fact, it was very
difficult to get through.
>> I felt just this amazing
feeling of love and presence
from him.
And I then saw all these
little flashes of movies
like it was all
these incidents that
had happened with my husband of
all the abuse situations that
had happened over the time
that we had been married.
I had done everything from
write him letters telling him
how I felt to begging him not to
hit us, not to hurt us anymore.
But he was the same person.
He hadn't changed at all.
He just lured me back and then
I was back in the same situation
again.
So I realized that I'd
done everything I could
and that it wasn't him
who needed to change.
It was me.
So I said to the
being, if you let
me go back, I promise you I'll
get strong enough to leave him.
And the second I
said the word him,
the doctor did a precordial
thump, a second precordial thump
and struck my chest
a second time.
And my eyes just shut
from up on the ceiling.
And I opened my eyes and I had
the oxygen mask on my face.
And I was looking at the doctor.
He still had his fist
right there on my chest.
And I looked right
into his face and I
said, into the oxygen
mask, what just happened?
And the nurse leaned over me.
She had backed away from the
table, but she came forward.
And she said, stop, don't talk.
We need to stabilize you.
And so for like 20 minutes,
they stabilized me.
And then finally, they
took the oxygen mask off.
And I said, what just happened?
I was up on the ceiling and I
could see and hear everything.
And the neurosurgeon was
standing next to the X-ray table
and he went, oh, brother.
And that made me completely
disclose because I
wanted to be believed.
No, she was on the phone
calling for the defib unit,
and that lady brought
in the oxygen cart,
and then that man brought
in the heart monitor.
I watched myself flat lining.
And then these two
guys were doing CPR
until the oxygen cart came in.
And then they stopped
blowing in my mouth
and they were just doing
the chest compressions.
And then you said to him,
too much time has passed.
And he stepped two steps
forward, struck my chest twice,
and then I came back.
And all of them were
standing there like.
And the neurosurgeon while I was
talking, clenched his fists up,
pulled them up next to his
body, and then he went,
I am not going to stand
here and listen to this.
And he stormed out of the room.
But everybody else stood
there and listened.
And then finally, they
put me on a gurney
and they sent me up to my
room because I was having
the surgery the next morning.
And when I would ask people
that came into my room
to take my vitals or
something, what happened
last night during my myelogram?
What was that?
What happened?
And they would look at the chart
and they would say, I'm sorry,
I don't see anything here.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
And the next day, when my
now ex-husband showed up
after the surgery, when I
told him what had happened,
he ended up saying, well,
that couldn't have happened.
You probably hallucinated that.
So I pretty much got
closed down and I just
decided never to talk about it.
It was as real and as clear
and vivid years later,
when I would think about it,
something would remind me of it.
And what ended up finally
opening me up to it
was a nurse from the hospital
was talking to me one day
and her mom was dying.
It was about 12 years
after I'd had the NDE.
And when I told her that I'd
had an incident happen to me
that might make her feel
better about the situation
with her mom's impending death,
I knew somehow in my heart
that it would help people.
And so I gave her the story.
And she was the one who
told me that there's
a lot of information online.
You can look at it.
A lot of us nurses
see this happen
and it's called a
near-death experience.